Q.  Les, good afternoon. Doctor, could you please state your name and business address? 
A.  Yeah, my name is Leslie Scott Matthews and my business address is Department of orthopedic surgery at MedStar Union Memorial Hospital at 3333, North Calvert Street in Baltimore. 
Q.  Doctor, the reason that I've asked you to appear here today for your deposition is because the case that I represent Kevin Tolson with is pending in the circuit court for Baltimore City. The defendants have identified you as an expert. They may testify at trial, and I'm here to find out all the opinions that you intend to give in this case and all the factual basis for your opinions. And I presume you've had your deposition taken before I have okay. If at any time that I ask you a question that you don't understand, just stop me and ask me to rephrase the question. Otherwise, if you don't, we'll assume that you've understood the question and you've answered accordingly. Also, if any time you need to take a break, just let us know and we'll stop the deposition. 
A.  Thank you, doctor. 
Q.  I want to show you what's been marked as exhibit number one. I number one. This is the notice that I sent to defense counsel noting your deposition today. Part of that notice contains a list of documents and items that we asked you to bring with you today. Do you have can you tell me what you brought with you today? In response to the deposition notice. 
A.  Yes, I have brought a copy of my curriculum vitae and all of the medical records and deposition testimony that pertains to this case that I've reviewed. 
Q.  Okay, can you, can you quickly go through and just identify each of the items that you have in front of you that you brought with you today 
A.  will do my best. I guess it's better to begin here I have a compilation of files which include the medical records pertaining to Mr. Tolson's care. That include records from his initial visit to st Agnes on 12, 309, his follow up visit to st Agnes on 12 509 and his subsequent care at the University of Maryland, which began, I believe, on 12 809 so that's a good portion of these records. I also have a significant number of transcripts of depositions given in this case, including and in no particular order, Caroline Stell, Krupa Shaw, Prudence Jackson, Dr David shank, Dr Timothy, Besant i Dr William Woodruff, Dr Paul Collier I uh Jeffrey Nicholson's deposition, who is a PA Sharon Craddock, RN Corey, Elaine Tolson, Dr sarkar's deposition, Dr Malik's deposition, two volumes of depositions from Linda margusson. RN, a deposition transcript of Gregory Sachs. CPO, a deposition of Kenneth Larson. MD, in addition, I have some CDs which represent the imaging studies that were done both at Mr. Colson's initial presentation to st Agnes on 12 three and subsequently on his follow up there on 12 five, I also have two DVDs of animations that were prepared for this case that depict, or attempt to depict, his injury and mechanism of injury as I understand it. And then finally, there are just some correspondences that have taken place between myself and the other attorneys in this case. Unknown Speaker Is, do you have the correspondence pulled out? 
A.  Well, it's here. Yes, it's sort of intermingled, but I'll 
Q.  just ask if at the end of the deposition, we can pull them out and then I can mark them as an exhibit. But we don't have to do that right now. We can 
A.  do whatever is best for you. Okay, I believe that covers everything. 
Q.  Doctor Did you. I didn't hear you say that you reviewed an MRI study that was taken at university. University of Maryland hospital on December the ninth. Do you know, if you review, I 
A.  certainly saw a written report describing the findings. I can't recall. Quite honestly, I've actually saw the images or not. 
Q.  Okay. Did you need to see the actual images for any of the opinions that you intend to give in this case, or did you rely upon the written report itself that 
A.  had no not seeing the images when I have any bearing on many of my opinions, I don't believe okay. 
Q.  And did you prepare any notes? I did not. And have you made any notations in any of the records that are that you brought with you today. I have not okay, and Doctor, can you tell me when you were first contacted to serve as an expert witness in this case? 
A.  Roughly sometime before the first of the year, I think in the month of December of 2013 
Q.  if I'm not mistaken, and which attorney contacted you, I believe 
A.  Miss Dinsmore, okay. 
Q.  Have you worked for MS Dinsmore or her firm before? 
A.  Not that I not with MS Dinsmore that I can recall, and I don't believe with her from 
Q.  okay. Do you know how MS Dinsmore knew about you or I got Okay, all right. And doctor, you're serving today as an expert witness in a medical malpractice case. Have you ever served as an expert witness in a medical malpractice case before this case? I have. And can you tell me when you first started reviewing cases with an eye towards serving as an expert witness in medical malpractice matters? 
A.  I probably performed some sort of medical malpractice review or expert testimony over a period of at least 20 years. 20 years, yes, 
Q.  has it always been in the area of orthopedic surgery? It has. Do you hold yourself out as an expert in vascular surgery? I do not. Okay. And can you tell me, over the 20 years or so, how many times you've actually testified in court, either by videotape, deposition or in person? 
A.  Probably not more than four or five. Were they 
Q.  in the state of Maryland, or were they? Were they all in the state of Maryland? 
A.  There was a case that I recall that took place in the state of Florida, and I was asked to give video testimony for that case, for the proceedings in Florida. That's the only one I can think of that was out 
Q.  of state. And over the 20 years, can you tell me the breakdown percentage of cases where you reviewed for the doctors and medical providers versus the injured patient, 
A.  both reviewed and Ultimately testified is by vast majority for defense 
Q.  is more than 75% probably 85% 
A.  I don't know. I mean 80% 85% 
Q.  and has that been, is that percentage stayed the same over the last 20 years, approximately? 
A.  Yeah, the reality situation is I, for some reason, I don't get asked to look at anything but defense work, so I don't get any plaintiff's work that come to my way, so it's just the way it is. 
Q.  And when's the last time you testified in court? If you can recall 
A.  in court several years ago, I can't be more precise. 
Q.  And of the four times that you've testified in court as an expert in medical malpractice cases. Do you recall the nature of the case and the opinion that you provided? 
A.  In general terms the last, the last case that I can recall testifying in court was pertaining to a alleged malpractice occurrence involved in a vascular injury in the knee area following Surgery. Do you 
Q.  remember any of the other ones? I 
A.  there was, there was another case that went to court. This goes back quite a few years. Similar scenario. This was a vascular injury in the knee area following arthroscopic surgery. Could not tell you the exact time or certainly not the names. There was a plaintiff's case that I became involved in that I testified in court on behalf of the plaintiff quite a few years ago that had to do with a with a foot injury. 